bridging tutorials update for Reveal and HT (#645)
Olink-Proteomics/OlinkRPackage: OlinkAnalyze/vignettes/bridging_crossproduct.Rmd

    is calculated for each of the bridging samples with the Explore HT
    project.

2.  The normalization factor is estimated for each assay by finding the
    median of the pairwise differences.

3.  The assay-specific normalization factor for each assay is used to
    normalize each data point from Explore 3072 to Explore HT.

### Quantile smoothing

Since Explore HT and Explore 3072 are two distinct products with different workflows involved in generating NPX data, some assays exist in corresponding but distinct NPX spaces. For those assays, the median of paired differences is insufficient for bridging because it uses only a single anchor point (the median/50% quantile). Instead, quantile smoothing (QS) using multiple anchor points (5%, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90%, and 95% quantiles) is preferred to map Explore 3072 data to the Explore HT or Reveal distribution.
The same principle applies when performing bridging between Explore HT and Olink Reveal, where quantile smoothing is also used to align the distributions between these two products.

The normalization using QS uses bridging samples to perform the following steps:

> 1.  Each data point of the samples from Explore 3072 (or from Explore HT when Reveal is the reference, and vice versa) is mapped to the equivalent space in the reference product using an empirical cumulative distribution function. The empirical cumulative distribution function is a probability model that uses the observed NPX values of the bridging samples for an assay to create a step function that interpolates linearly between available data points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Each data point of the samples from the non-reference project is mapped to the equivalent space in the reference product using an empirical cumulative distribution function. The empirical cumulative distribution function is a probability model that uses the observed NPX values of the bridging samples for an assay to create a step function that interpolates linearly between available data points.
```

2.  The empirical distribution function is then used to map the data points from the source product to the reference product space using the specified quantiles. At this stage, all data points from the bridging samples have NPX values normalized to the reference product.

3.  To normalize the remaining data, a spline regression model is constructed using the sorted data from the source product (prior to mapping) and the mapped values, along with the anchor points of the spline. A spline regression model divides the dataset at the quantiles and uses these quantiles as anchor points or knots; the model then fits the values between each anchor point.

> 4.  The spline regression model is used to predict all remaining data points from the source product (Explore 3072, Explore HT, or Reveal, depending on direction) into the space of the reference product. The model consists of piecewise linear regressions within the quantile intervals. The NPX value from the source product is used as the x-value in the appropriate interval to produce the predicted y-value corresponding to the NPX scale of the reference product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  The spline regression model is used to predict all remaining data points from the non-reference product (Explore 3072, Explore HT, or Reveal, depending on direction) into the space of the reference product. The model consists of piecewise linear regressions within the quantile intervals. The NPX value from the source product is used as the x-value in the appropriate interval to produce the predicted y-value corresponding to the NPX scale of the reference product.
```
